= LockFile

A simple Lock File class written in Ruby.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lock_file#Lock_files

== Installation

From Gemcutter:

  gem install simple_lockfile

The project page is located at http://gemcutter.org/gems/simple_lockfile.

== Usage:

  require 'lockfile'
  
  l = LockFile.new({:path => "/Users/joshnesbitt/Desktop", :filename => "test.lock"}) # => "/Users/joshnesbitt/Desktop/test.lock"

  l.locked? # => false
  
  l.lock! # => Integer value
  
  l.locked? # => true
  
  l.process_id # => PID
  
  l.unlock! # => Integer value
  
  l.locked? # => false
  
I commonly use it for checking whether an expensive task is being executed:

  refresh_search_index unless @lockfile.locked?
  
And in the method something like this:

  def refresh_search_index
    @lockfile.lock!
    
    # ... some heavy operation ...
    
    @lockfile.unlock!
  end

=== Expiration

You can check if your .lock files are expired, by passing :expire_after argument into initializer

    LockFile.new({:expire_after => "1 hour"})
    LockFile.new({:expire_after => "5 hours"})
    LockFile.new({:expire_after => "1 minute"})
    LockFile.new({:expire_after => "100 minutes"})
    LockFile.new({:expire_after => "2 hours and 10 minutes"})

You can check that with expired? method:

    l1 = LockFile.new({:expire_after => "1 hour"})
    l1.locked?  # => false
    l1.lock!
    l1.expired? # => false

    # more than hour passed and somewhere else

    l2 = LockFile.new({:expire_after => "1 hour"})
    l2.locked?  # => true
    l2.expired? # => true

== Testing

To install necessary gems, please try

  $ gem install bundler

then

  $ bundle

Specs are run using Watchr (http://github.com/mynyml/watchr) to observe the /lib and /spec directories for any changes. Once installed simply do:

  watchr spec/watch.rb

You don't have to use Watchr to run the specs, I just prefer to use it over autotest as its lightweight, quick and works. You could just run the specs normally.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Contributors

* Greg Fitzgerald (http://github.com/gregf) - Gemification of LockFile.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Josh Nesbitt <josh@josh-nesbitt.net>. See LICENSE for details.
